---
sourceUrl: https://spec.c2pa.org/specifications/specifications/2.4/index.html
title: C2PA Specifications :: C2PA Specifications
---

C2PA Specifications :: C2PA Specifications C2PA Specifications Download Technical Specifications (2.3) Explainer (2.3) Guidance for Implementers (2.3) CDDL and JSON Schemas (2.3) Technical Specifications (2.2) Explainer (2.2) UX Recommendations Security Considerations Harms Modelling C2PA Specifications Technical Specifications Content Credentials Content Credentials JSON (crJSON) Attestations Soft Binding API Informative Documents Explainer Guidance for Implementers User Experience Guidance C2PA Security Considerations C2PA Harms Modelling Guidance for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Recommendations Human and Organizational Identity Recommendation C2PA Specifications 2.4 C2PA Specifications 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 C2PA Specifications 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 C2PA Specifications The Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA) addresses the prevalence of misleading information online through the development of technical standards for certifying the source and history (or provenance) of media content. C2PA is a Joint Development Foundation project. This site contains the various specifications and informative documents produced by the C2PA. Technical Specifications Content Credentials Content Credentials JSON (crJSON) Attestations Soft Binding API Guidance & Informative Documents Explainer Guidance for Implementers User Experience Guidance Security Considerations Harms Modelling Guidance for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Recommendations Human and Organizational Identity Recommendation PDF Versions of these documents are also available via the Download button in the page header. C2PA Home Docs Project @C2PA_org Copyright © 2026 Coalition for Content Provenance and Authenticity (C2PA). Except where noted, the content is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) license. The UI for this site is the Antora default UI, licensed under the MPL-2.0 license. Thanks to our membership for helping to make this project possible. Authored in AsciiDoc. Produced by Antora and Asciidoctor .
