---
sourceUrl: https://deepmind.google/models/synthid/
title: SynthID — Google DeepMind
---

SynthID — Google DeepMind Skip to main content Explore our next generation AI systems Explore models Gemini Gemini Build intelligent agents Gemini Omni Create anything from anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemini Audio Talk, create and control audio Specialized models Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Imagen Generate high-quality images from text Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio World models & embodied AI Genie 3 Generate and explore interactive worlds Gemini Robotics Perceive, reason, use tools and interact Open models Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Our latest AI breakthroughs and updates from the lab Explore research Breakthroughs SIMA 2 An agent that plays, reasons, and learns with you Genie 3 Generate and explore interactive worlds AlphaGo Mastering the game of Go Gemini Robotics Perceive, reason, use tools and interact Learn more Evals Publications Responsibility Unlocking a new era of discovery with AI Explore science Breakthroughs AlphaFold Predict protein structures with high accuracy WeatherNext Fast and accurate AI weather forecasting AlphaEarth Map our planet in unprecedented detail AlphaEvolve Design advanced algorithms for math and applications in computing Learn more Gemini for Science Experimental Tools Science Skills Our mission is to build AI responsibly to benefit humanity About Google DeepMind Responsibility Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats News Discover our latest AI breakthroughs, projects, and updates Careers We’re looking for people who want to make a real, positive impact on the world Learn more Education Our National Partnerships for AI The Podcast Models Explore our next generation AI systems Explore models Gemini Gemini Build intelligent agents Gemini Omni Create anything from anything Nano Banana Create and edit detailed images Gemini Audio Talk, create and control audio Specialized models Veo Generate cinematic video with audio Imagen Generate high-quality images from text Lyria Generate high fidelity music and audio World models & embodied AI Genie 3 Generate and explore interactive worlds Gemini Robotics Perceive, reason, use tools and interact Open models Gemma Build responsible AI applications at scale Research Our latest AI breakthroughs and updates from the lab Explore research Breakthroughs SIMA 2 An agent that plays, reasons, and learns with you Genie 3 Generate and explore interactive worlds AlphaGo Mastering the game of Go Gemini Robotics Perceive, reason, use tools and interact Learn more Evals Publications Responsibility Science Unlocking a new era of discovery with AI Explore science Breakthroughs AlphaFold Predict protein structures with high accuracy WeatherNext Fast and accurate AI weather forecasting AlphaEarth Map our planet in unprecedented detail AlphaEvolve Design advanced algorithms for math and applications in computing Learn more Gemini for Science Experimental Tools Science Skills About Our mission is to build AI responsibly to benefit humanity About Google DeepMind Learn more Education Our National Partnerships for AI The Podcast Responsibility Ensuring AI safety through proactive security, even against evolving threats News Discover our latest AI breakthroughs, projects, and updates Careers We’re looking for people who want to make a real, positive impact on the world Build with Gemini Try Gemini Google DeepMind DeepMind Google AI Learn about all our AI Google DeepMind Explore the frontier of AI Google Labs Try our AI experiments Google Research Explore our research Products and apps Gemini app Chat with Gemini Google AI Studio Build with our next-gen AI models Google Antigravity Our agentic development platform Models Research Science About Build with Gemini Try Gemini SynthID A tool to watermark and identify content generated through AI Try in Gemini Overview How it works Hands-on What is SynthID? Generative AI can help us all to be more creative, productive, and innovative. But it can be hard to tell the difference between content that’s been AI-generated, and content created without AI. SynthID is our new watermarking tool, designed specifically for AI-generated content. It empowers users to identify AI-generated (or altered) content, helping to foster transparency and trust in generative AI. How SynthID works SynthID embeds digital watermarks directly into AI-generated images, audio, text or video. The watermarks are embedded across Google’s generative AI consumer products, and are imperceptible to humans – but can be detected by SynthID's technology. Slide 1 of 3 AI-generated image and video SynthID adds an invisible digital watermark to an AI-generated image (or video segment). The watermark doesn’t change the image or video quality. It’s added the moment content is created, and designed to stand up to modifications like cropping, adding filters, changing frame rates, or lossy compression. AI-generated audio SynthID embeds a watermark into any audio generated or published through our AI music generation model Lyria or the podcast generation feature of Notebook LM. It’s inaudible to the human ear, and can’t be altered by common modifications like adding noise, MP3 compression, or changing the speed of the track. AI generated-text We’ve expanded SynthID to watermarking and identifying text generated by the Gemini app and web experience. Large language models generate text one word (token) at a time. Each word is assigned a probability score, based on how likely it is to be generated next. So for a sentence like “My favourite tropical fruits are mango and…”, the word “bananas” would have a higher probability score than the word “airplanes”. SynthID adjusts these probability scores to generate a watermark. It's not noticeable to the human eye, and doesn’t affect the quality of the output. Detecting SynthID watermarks in Gemini Want to check if an image, video or audio clip was generated, or edited, by Google AI? Ask Gemini. Simply upload the image, video or audio clip to your chat, and ask if it’s been created or altered by Google AI. Gemini will check for a SynthID watermark, and let you know if it finds one. Try in Gemini How to verify in Gemini Your browser does not support the video tag. Your browser does not support the video tag. SynthID Detector Earlier this year, we launched the SynthID Detector, a verification portal, to verify if a piece of content was watermarked with SynthID. Just upload an image, video or audio file. We are currently collaborating with journalists and media professionals to test the portal and collect their feedback. Join the early tester waitlist Your browser does not support the video tag. Follow us Sign up for updates on our latest innovations I accept Google's Terms and Conditions and acknowledge that my information will be used in accordance with Google's Privacy Policy . Sign up Build AI responsibly to benefit humanity Models Gemini Gemini Omni Nano Banana Gemini Audio Gemma Genie Lyria Veo Research Gemini Robotics Breakthroughs Evals Publications Responsibility Science AlphaFold AlphaGenome WeatherNext AlphaEarth AlphaEvolve Products Gemini app Google AI Studio Google Antigravity Learn more About News Careers National Partnerships for AI The Podcast About Google Google products Privacy Terms Cookies management controls
