---
sourceUrl: https://blog.google/technology/ai/google-synthid-ai-content-detector/
title: SynthID Detector: Identify content made with Google’s AI tools
---

SynthID Detector: Identify content made with Google’s AI tools Skip to main content The Keyword SynthID Detector — a new portal to help identify AI-generated content Share x.com Facebook LinkedIn Mail Copy link Home Innovation & AI Innovation & AI Models & Research Google DeepMind Google Research Google Labs Gemini models Quantum computing See all Products Developer tools Gemini app NotebookLM See all Infrastructure & cloud Global network Google Cloud See all Technology Safety & Security Health See all Learn more: Google DeepMind blog Google Research blog Google Developers blog Google Cloud blog See all AI updates Models & Research Google DeepMind Google Research Google Labs Gemini models Quantum computing See all Products Developer tools Gemini app NotebookLM See all Infrastructure & cloud Global network Google Cloud See all Technology Safety & Security Health See all Learn more: Google DeepMind blog Google Research blog Google Developers blog Google Cloud blog See all AI updates Products & platforms Products & platforms Products Search Maps Chrome Google Health Google Workspace Learning & Education Shopping See all Platforms Android Google Play Wear OS See all Devices Pixel Google Nest Fitbit Chromebooks See all Learn more: Google Ads & Commerce blog Waze blog See all product updates Products Search Maps Chrome Google Health Google Workspace Learning & Education Shopping See all Platforms Android Google Play Wear OS See all Devices Pixel Google Nest Fitbit Chromebooks See all Learn more: Google Ads & Commerce blog Waze blog See all product updates Company news Company news Outreach & initiatives Creating opportunity Safety & security Google.org Public policy Sustainability Health See all Leadership Sundar Pichai, CEO More authors See all Inside Google Around the globe Life at Google See all Outreach & initiatives Creating opportunity Safety & security Google.org Public policy Sustainability Health See all Leadership Sundar Pichai, CEO More authors See all Inside Google Around the globe Life at Google See all Feed Subscribe Global (English) Africa (English) Australia (English) Brasil (Português) Canada (English) Canada (Français) Česko (Čeština) Deutschland (Deutsch) España (Español) France (Français) Greece (Ελληνικά) India (English) Indonesia (Bahasa Indonesia) Italia (Italiano) 日本 (日本語) 대한민국 (한국어) Latinoamérica (Español) الشرق الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا (اللغة العربية) MENA (English) Nederlands (Nederland) New Zealand (English) Polska (Polski) Portugal (Português) Sverige (Svenska) ประเทศไทย (ไทย) Türkiye (Türkçe) 台灣 (中文) ["What is the Fitbit Air?", "How can I learn new AI skills?", "What's the latest Android news?"] Subscribe The Keyword Home Innovation & AI Innovation & AI Models & Research Google DeepMind Google Research Google Labs Gemini models Quantum computing See all Products Developer tools Gemini app NotebookLM See all Infrastructure & cloud Global network Google Cloud See all Technology Safety & Security Health See all Learn more: Google DeepMind blog Google Research blog Google Developers blog Google Cloud blog See all AI updates Products & platforms Products & platforms Products Search Maps Chrome Google Health Google Workspace Learning & Education Shopping See all Platforms Android Google Play Wear OS See all Devices Pixel Google Nest Fitbit Chromebooks See all Learn more: Google Ads & Commerce blog Waze blog See all product updates Company news Company news Outreach & initiatives Creating opportunity Safety & security Google.org Public policy Sustainability Health See all Leadership Sundar Pichai, CEO More authors See all Inside Google Around the globe Life at Google See all Feed Images RSS feed Subscribe Breadcrumb Innovation & AI Products SynthID Detector — a new portal to help identify AI-generated content May 20, 2025 · Share x.com Facebook LinkedIn Mail Copy link The SynthID Detector can help determine if an image created using Google AI contains a SynthID watermark. ALT_TEXT: Pushmeet Pushmeet Kohli VP, Science and Strategic Initiatives, Google DeepMind Share x.com Facebook LinkedIn Mail Copy link ALT_TEXT: a hero image including images like a dog swimming with goggles, the phrase "SynthID" and the text of queries like "What are black holes..." Your browser does not support the audio element. Listen to article This content is generated by Google AI. Generative AI is experimental [[duration]] minutes Voice Speed Voice Speed 0.75X 1X 1.5X 2X Advances in generative AI are making it possible for people to create content in entirely new ways — from text to high quality audio, images and videos. As these capabilities advance and become more broadly available, questions of authenticity, context and verification emerge. Today we’re announcing SynthID Detector, a verification portal to quickly and efficiently identify AI-generated content made with Google AI. The portal provides detection capabilities across different modalities in one place and provides essential transparency in the rapidly evolving landscape of generative media. It can also highlight which parts of the content are more likely to have been watermarked with SynthID. When we launched SynthID — a state-of-the-art tool that embeds imperceptible watermarks and enables the identification of AI-generated content — our aim was to provide a suite of novel technical solutions to help minimise misinformation and misattribution. SynthID not only preserves the content’s quality, it acts as a robust watermark that remains detectable even when the content is shared or undergoes a range of transformations. While originally focused on AI-generated imagery only, we’ve since expanded SynthID to cover AI-generated text, audio and video content, including content generated by our Gemini, Imagen, Lyria and Veo models across Google. Over 10 billion pieces of content have already been watermarked with SynthID. How SynthID Detector works When you upload an image, audio track, video or piece of text created using Google's AI tools, the portal will scan the media for a SynthID watermark. If a watermark is detected, the portal will highlight specific portions of the content most likely to be watermarked. For audio, the portal pinpoints specific segments where a SynthID watermark is detected, and for images, it indicates areas where a watermark is most likely. Here’s how the SynthID Detector works 1 : Upload content: Upload an image, audio track, video or piece of text created using Google's AI tools. Scan for watermarks: The portal scans the uploaded media and detects whether the uploaded content, or specific portions of it, contain a SynthID watermark. View results: The portal will present the results and if a SynthID watermark is detected, highlight which parts of the content are more likely to have been watermarked. We are starting to roll this out to early testers today, before making it available more broadly. Journalists, media professionals and researchers can join our waitlist to gain access to the SynthID Detector. Expanding the SynthID ecosystem To help grow a trusted ecosystem we’ve already open sourced SynthID text watermarking , so any developer can build with this technology and incorporate it into their own models. And earlier this year we took the first step in creating an ecosystem of industry partners to expand the use of the SynthID technology: We partnered with NVIDIA to watermark videos generated by their NVIDIA Cosmos™ preview NIM microservice on build.nvidia.com . This means that more content across the web has SynthID embedded in it, not just content generated by Google. At the same time, it’s important that other partners will be able to detect when a piece of content has been watermarked with SynthID. That’s why today we’re also announcing our partnership with GetReal Security , the world’s leading content verification platform. Content transparency remains a complex challenge. To continue to inform and empower people engaging with AI-generated content, we believe it’s vital to continue collaborating with the AI community and broaden access to transparency tools. The author would like to thank Miguel de Andrés-Clavera and the Google Partner Innovation team for their assistance in developing the SynthID Detector portal. ALT_TEXT: an illustration of the characters "I/O 25" on a white graph Get more stories from Google in your inbox. Get more stories from Google in your inbox. Email address Your information will be used in accordance with Google's privacy policy. Subscribe Done. Just one step more. Check your inbox to confirm your subscription. You are already subscribed to our newsletter. You can also subscribe with a different email address . POSTED IN: AI Products Google DeepMind 1 Product in development; final product details may differ. Video and text watermark detection will be rolled out in the coming weeks. Related stories Gemini models 9 demos of Gemini Omni and Gemini 3.5 in action By Zahra Thompson May 29, 2026 NotebookLM Dive deeper into I/O 2026 with NotebookLM. May 27, 2026 Google DeepMind Running Guide agent: A step towards running unbounded By Robin Dua & Miguel de Andrés-Clavera May 20, 2026 Google DeepMind Simulate real-world places with Project Genie and Street View By Diego Rivas & Jonathan Herbert & Nicole Segaran May 19, 2026 AI Products Making it easier to understand how content was created and edited By Laurie Richardson & Pushmeet Kohli May 19, 2026 Google Research Gemini for Science: AI experiments and tools for a new era of discovery By Pushmeet Kohli & Yossi Matias . Jump to position 1 Jump to position 2 Jump to position 3 Jump to position 4 Jump to position 5 Jump to position 6 Let’s stay in touch. Get the latest news from Google in your inbox. Subscribe No thanks Follow Us Privacy Terms About Google Google Products About the Keyword Help Global (English) Africa (English) Australia (English) Brasil (Português) Canada (English) Canada (Français) Česko (Čeština) Deutschland (Deutsch) España (Español) France (Français) Greece (Ελληνικά) India (English) Indonesia (Bahasa Indonesia) Italia (Italiano) 日本 (日本語) 대한민국 (한국어) Latinoamérica (Español) الشرق الأوسط وشمال أفريقيا (اللغة العربية) MENA (English) Nederlands (Nederland) New Zealand (English) Polska (Polski) Portugal (Português) Sverige (Svenska) ประเทศไทย (ไทย) Türkiye (Türkçe) 台灣 (中文)
